All right.
So here's goes log in and my red box which says that the flux through a close surface equals to the
total charge enclosed by that surface divided by this constant which is our primitive city of free space.
I now just want to focus specifically now on how do you actually evaluate this thing.
Because this is just a constant.
So if we can evaluate the charging closed by any close surface then we already done the right hand side
of GAUSS LAW and that makes our job a little bit easier.
So let's work on this term.
So what I've got over here are some point charges that I've laid out in space.
They have different magnitudes so I have to highlight some of these right.
So you have two columns over here.
You got five cool homes there.
Negative for cool homes over here and negative one cool home right over here.
All right.
So they're all point charges and let me look at some various surfaces.
What if I had a surface that looked something like this.
Doesn't matter on the shape as long as it is close.
I'm going to call this here surface S1.
So how do you calculate the flux through this closed surface right here.
OK.
If I look at the surface S1 the flux through the close surface again the total flux through the close
surface.
All I have to do is count how many charges are inside in this case it's simply two columns.
So it'd be two divided by epsilon 0.
That's it.
That is the total flux through that surface which is kind of remarkable.
Right.
Because if you think about what the electric field looks like that's produced by this charge over here
it's in this direction over here it's in this direction.
All right.
And the area is constantly changing right the area for this kind of bent surface over here is always
in different directions.
Right.
The direction perpendicular to this surface looks like this.
It's always changing.
But what makes Gauss is law quite remarkable is that it's really easy to evaluate the flux through any
close surface.
So let me kind of remove some of those just the clean up the picture a little bit.
What's remarkable is even if I changed the surface Whoops let's keep that like that over Epsilon 0.
OK so that's the flux through that surface.
Even if I tried this surface over here let me add a different surface in a different color.
What if I chose this surface right here
again kind of rather complicated looking surface and not really a rectangle because of what's going
on over here.
However I am in closing the same amount of charge as one.
So if I looked at the flux going through this surface over here if I did that calculation out long I
would find the exact same answer.
It's a closed service.
Number one and define the flux through a close surface.
You simply have to evaluate the right hand side.
So it would be two divided by epsilon 0 all right.
What if I take this surface down over here let's clean up my picture a little bit.
All right let's do another surface maybe do this one in purple.
Here's another surface
All right.
First of all it is a closed service.
You could see let's call this one here S3.
All right and what is the flux through this close surface.
Or how much charge is enclosed.
Again all you have to do is look inside this service.
I have the total charging closed
is what it's negative four and negative 1.
So I get minus five.
Cool arm is the total charging close.
So that means that the flux going through that total surface would simply be equal to negative five
over Epsilon zero.
Notice I can have a negative value for the flux there is nothing telling me that I can't go.
And that is because there's gonna be field lines going toward all of these negative charges.
OK.
So this is the flux through the surface as 3 as do another one.
What if I circle all of these charges
I make a giant surface over here let's call this surface.
As for how much charge is enclosed through this surface the amount of charging close they're all enclosed
right.
I have to sum every single charge over here so it's basically Q1 plus Q2 plus Q3 plus Q4
to plus 5 is 7 and 7 minus 5 gives me too.
So that means that the flux through S4 that's a close surface.
I can evaluate it by simply doing the total charging closed divided by epsilon 0.
Okay.
That's the value of the flux through the surface.
Let me show you another surface over here what if I had a green surface that looks something like this.
All right this let's call the green one here is surface S5.
All right surface S5.
What is the total flux going through that surface again rather complicated surface.
All right the area would always be perpendicular the field would be the field produced by all of these
four point charges which itself would be very very complicated because I'd have to evaluate that everywhere
on the surface.
However Gauss law makes this really really simple.
So first of all how much Chargers enclosed by this surface.
I just look inside inside that surface.
There is zero charging close.
So what is the flux going through S5 Gauss as law would tell us they would have to be 0 0 divided by
epsilon 0 is still 0.
Okay.
Hopefully you are a little bit more comfortable now looking at this charge enclosed by a surface.
We're gonna go back now and rather than doing these more complicated surfaces now we're gonna do something
that is a little bit friendlier is a little bit more symmetric and then we're gonna see how we can use
it to actually evaluate the electric field because remember electric field is kind of buried in here.
All right you use always you always use electric field to calculate the flux so maybe we could use a
friendlier surface and use that quantity to actually calculate the electric field.